---
published: true
title: "test-Nic"
mapDefaultGroup: animal_products
mapDefaultParam: anmlnumxagg
exploreDefaultGroup: animal_products
exploreScenarioComp: ssp2_nocc
related: 
  - ssp2_gfdl
  - "SSP2-GFDLnic"
  - "SSP2-IPSLnic"
outputsCommodShow: 
  - tyldxagg
  - foodavailxagg
  - qdxagg
  - qeshxagg
  - qfxagg
  - qmshxagg
  - qnsh1xagg
  - qnxagg
  - qsupxagg
  - tareaxagg
outputsNonCommodShow: 
  - populationatriskxagg
  - totalmalnourishedxagg
mapParam: 
  - qlxagg
  - tyldxagg
  - foodavailxagg
  - qdxagg
  - qfxagg
  - qmshxagg
  - qnsh1xagg
  - qnsh2xagg
  - qnxagg
  - qsupxagg
  - tareaxagg
---

This projects simulates the adoption of improved crop varieties across various regions of the world. Effects of this adoption are estimated on agriculture productivity, in 2050 under assumptions of a current climate or under climate change conditions. Through modeling of changes in crop yields, the analysis also explains how the different varieties may affect food prices and trade flows.

METHODOLOGY

The DSSAT suite of crop simulation models was used to represent improved crop varieties of maize, rice, wheat, sorghum, and groundnut, and estimate changes in yields following the adoption of these varieties in specific geographical areas of the world (see table below). For cassava, three different management options to control infestation from the mealybug pest were examined. The results were used as inputs to the IMPACT model system to determine the effects from adoption of the new varieties on yields, production and world prices. Simulations were run under a no-climate-change baseline scenario (unchanged 2005 climate ) and a climate change scenario originating from the GFDL-ESM2M climate model under a Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) of 8.5.

AUTHORS AND COLLABORATORS

This study is part of the Global Futures and Strategic Foresight Project (GFSF), a collaborative effort led by IFPRI in partnership with eleven other CGIAR Centers: CIAT, CIMMYT, CIP, ICARDA, ICRAF, ICRISAT, IITA, ILRI, IRRI, IWMI and WorldFish. Team members represent a wide range of disciplines and expertise, including agricultural economics, crop modeling, animal sciences, hydrology, natural resource management, geographic information systems and computer science. The team also collaborates with leading climate, crop, and economic modelers from a variety of other institutions around the world through the Agricultural Model Intercomparison and Improvement Project (AgMIP). 
More info on GFSF can be found at: http://globalfutures.cgiar.org/presentations-publications/

International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI): Sherman Robinson, Daniel Mason-D’Croz, Shahnila Islam, Richard Robertson, Arthur Gueneau, Nicola Cenacchi, Mark Rosegrant, and Keith Wiebe
Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (CIAT): Bernardo Creamer
Centro Internacional de Mejoración de Maiz y Trigo (CIMMYT): Gbegbelegbe Sika
Centro Internacional de la Papa (CIP): Guy Hareau, Ulrich Kleinwechter (formerly from CIP)
International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT): Swamikannu Nedumaran 
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI): Khondoker Mottaleb (formerly from IRRI)

CONTACTS

Corresponding author: Sherman Robinson -
Global Futures Program Manager: Keith Wiebe 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This study was supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the CGIAR Research Program on Policies, Institutions and Markets (PIM), and the CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS).

